# **Question 0**: do we use the population formula or sample formula

**Answer**: sample formula


# **Question 1**: just curious as to how the autograder tells when we've tested a criteria. do we need to assert the condition, or cout the relevant return value, etc? thanks.

**Answer**: You should assert the conditions.


# **Question 2**: Is there going to be anything (like a form or an Ed post) I can use to find a partner for projects 2-5? 

**Answer**: #10 


# **Question 3**: Hi! I am retaking EECS 280, and I am planning on partnering with a different partner than last semester. I am planning on redoing the projects, but I'm assuming they will still follow a similar logic since I did the projects last time. I just wanted to make sure this is still ok!!  I am pretty sure it is in the syllabus, but I just wanted to confirm again! Thank you, again! 

**Answer**: We always recommend rewriting functions, as it's always good practice. But yea that's okay according to the syllabus. also see #1 


# **Question 4**: What do I do at this step. Do I press "Select my default compiler"? Also, do I install the C/C++ Extension pack?

**Answer**: You want to install the C/C++ extension. Also double check the setup tutorial as you run into issues and you can also come to office hours with an setup questions!


# **Question 5**: I am getting this error when I type in "make main.exe" in the terminal. I don't know what to do.

**Answer 0**: This is a compiler error, so there is something about your syntax in your main.cpp file and/or your stats.cpp file. Make sure that you have provided syntactically correct implementations for all your functions in the stats.cpp file (if you don't have any implementation for the function yet you can write "assert(false);" as placeholder). Also make sure that you don't have any syntax errors in main.cpp


**Answer 1**: The compiler error specifically says you have an undefined symbol called "main". This means that your compiler is expecting a symbol (function) with the name of "main", but it is not detecting the function in your files. I presume this is because you haven't added a main function to your main.cpp file yet. If you have, double check that you have saved the file, and try recompiling.


# **Question 6**: Does the sort function order the values in the vector from the least to highest?

**Answer**: Yes, 

Here's the implementation from p1_library.cpp:

void sort(std::vector<double> &v) {

  std::sort(v.begin(), v.end());

}


# **Question 7**: Where can I find the guidelines for the style?

**Answer**: No style checks for P1 but here's the style guide for future projects:
https://eecs280staff.github.io/tutorials/style_guide.html


# **Question 8**: Do I have to use the modf() function for the percentile function?

**Answer**: While we don't explicitly check for its usage as long your output is correct, it does make it much easier to implement the function and avoids issues with your percentile being slightly off. Definitely recommend to use it 


# **Question 9**: When I try to compile the test cases file by typing in "make stats_test.exe", this error message is popping up.   

**Answer**: Make sure you're in the right directory under terminal




# **Question 10**: Do the test cases that we make get graded?

**Answer**: For this project we are only grading that they exist. For future projects they will be graded for how many instructor bugs they can catch.
Either way, they are meant to help you double check your code for the private tests :)


# **Question 11**: Where can I find the project 1 scoring points setup? Like what is the total points for project 1 and how is it split up?

**Answer**: There are 24 points total, 9 points for the public tests (which you can see broken down on the AG) and 15 points for private test cases which are released after the deadline. We don't disclose the breakdown of private test cases.




# **Question 12**: When would the feedback and scores from the private tests for Project 1 be available?  

**Answer**: Soon TM


# **Question 13**: Will the answer keys to the lab worksheets be posted? Also, for those watching the lectures at home, will we be able to have access to lecture quizzes for practice even though it won't count for credit?

**Answer**: I will check to see if we are releasing lab solutions this semester and update this post.
The lecture quizzes are not available to students who attend virtually. We use the quizzes as attendance so if you were to fill it out at home that would defeat the purpose of the quizzes. 


# **Question 14**: Hi! For p2 on Autograder, I've been downloading my code from last semester and submitting it through Autograder, but I've been getting scores varying from 3/70 to 16/70? It's the exact same code that I used when I submitted to Autograder last semester, but before me and my project partner were getting 67/70 on our project? I'm a little confused about what might be off about the code that's resulting in the 3 or 16 /70.  I couldn't make it to the project overview today so I'm not sure if I missed something critical (?) like if the specs changed or not -- I've gone through the slides but I haven't seen anything so far (?)  

**Answer**: Project 2 has changed from last semester as indicated in the specs:

Please make sure you are looking at the latest specs and files while working on the project.


# **Question 15**: Hi,  I and my partner have written our implementation for Matrix_at() and we think we did it correctly, but we are struggling with writing test cases for it. We have looked at the FAQ where it mentions Matrix_at() and we have referenced lecture notes about pointers and how to use them when writing code for testing Matrix_at().   We seem to be having the most issues when we try to assign a value through a pointer we created using Matrix_at() (the non-constant function) and when we try to use that pointer when calling another function (Matrix_column) (however, we were able to use a pointer made with Matrix_at() when calling Matrix_column() in a separate test function). The code stops running at this point and the terminal says it is experiencing a segmentation fault, but I don't think we are accessing anything out of bounds. I'm struggling to find out if the issue is with some part of the test case I've written, Matrix_at(), or Matrix_column().  Sorry if I am being unclear, I am really lost on what the issue is, so I'm struggling to articulate the problems I've found. Do you know what the issue might be or what issues I should be looking for in our code?  The issue is appearing on Line 129 of Matrix_tests.cpp in our most recent submission to the autograder (the section that is not running is currently turned into a series of comments to allow the code to run without errors).  Thank you!

**Answer**: Based on the most recent AG submission it looks like in Matrix_at (and several other functions) you have mat->data.data(). To access the data array in a Matrix object, you just need mat->data, not mat->data.data(). I would also encourage you to use your debugger to step through your own tests or the public tests to ensure Matrix_at is where you are failing and that would also be able to give you more direct feedback on exactly where the bug is coming from!




# **Question 16**: the resources ive tried to find to have each of the two functions call a singular helper function which can output both a const and non-const pointer have mostly touched on doing so using "const {" which seems to be exclusive to member functions, at least according to the inlay diagnostic hints of my ide. is there any way to do this which is recommended? thank you !

**Answer**: I'm not staff, but I believe Prof. Juett talked about this in lecture on Wednesday or Thursday. If I remember correctly, this is the one example where we do need to duplicate code between the two functions.

That is what I've done, and my code still passes the autograder check for code duplication.


# **Question 17**: Hello! I'm currently working on implementing seam_carve_width in processing.cpp , and I don't know how to initialize the seam array needed to call find_minimal_vertical_seam  and remove_vertical_seam .  Both the above functions require int seam[] to have at least length Matrix_width allocated to it, but since I can't know the width of an image at compile time, I keep getting the clang error:  clang: Variable length arrays are a C99 feature   My first thought was to define a constant variable for the height at the beginning of seam_carve_width, as that will always be greater than or equal to the height at the end. That didn't remove the first error, however, and I also got a new error:  clang: Initializer of 'height' is not a constant expression   While this makes sense, Image_height doesn't return a compile time constant, I don't know what to do to get a correctly initialized int seam[].  Do I just initialize it to some set max length, e.g. 1,000,000, or is there something I am missing, either in the instructions, the function requirements, or C++ syntax?  Thank you!

**Answer**: It's said somewhere to initialize seam[] as a vector and then pass through seam.data() for the data array. Double check with someone or the specs.


# **Question 18**: Hi, I am wondering if the processing file passed the public test on my vs code but reports timed out issue for horses while passing the other two on autograder, is it because my code is inefficient and runs too slow?   Thank you!  

**Answer**: yep- check to make sure there are no unnecessary loops in your code (ie. there should be no loops in matrix_at()). The perf command may also be helpful in identifying where the slowest parts of your program are if you have windows.


# **Question 19**: Hi! I was wondering if the specs for projects 3-5 are going to differ from last semester? I'm hoping to get a little ahead on these projects and it would be great to know this information if possible.    Thank you!

**Answer**: I would make sure to read the project specs when they are released this semester to make sure you account for any changes.


# **Question 20**: For a 1x1 matrix would the vertical cost matrix be the same as the energy matrix?

**Answer**: the first row of cost = first row of energy. So yes.


# **Question 21**: When arrays are passed to functions, are they passed by reference or as a pointer?

**Answer**: Arrays decay into pointers when passed into a function, so they are passed by pointer.


# **Question 22**: In this example, why does sizeof(aptr) print 8 but sizeof(i) prints 4?  Also, I am confused about 32 vs 64 bite sizes. 

**Answer**: sizeof() gives you the number of bytes the data passed in takes up in memory.

sizeof(i) gives you the number of bytes that an integer takes up in memory (4 bytes) since i is an int. The size of an integer and most other data types stay constant, regardless of whether is it a 32 bit or 64 bit system.

When we talk about 32 vs 64 bit systems, we are referring to the number of bits that a memory address uses. Remember that a pointer stores a memory address. in 32 bit systems, we would need 4 bytes per pointer because each address is 32 bits, or 4 bytes (1 byte = 8 bits). With a 64 bit system, we would need 8 bytes per pointer because each address is 64 bits, or 8 bytes.

 Most systems nowadays are 64 bit, so I assume this slide is saying sizeof(aptr) = 8 bytes because of this fact. Depending on the system though, the size of a pointer could be 4 bytes.






# **Question 23**: I am confused as to whether we are supposed to be using array indexing or dereferencing pointers. Are there specific situations where we use one over the other?

**Answer**: I assume you're talking about traversal by pointer vs traversal by index in loops, but correct me if I am wrong.

They are basically interchangeable in a lot of ways. I would use the type that fits the situation best. The obvious one is if you want to keep track of an index while traversing you'd want to use traversal by index. Traversal by pointer might work better if you want to look at two areas in an array at once, ie. trying to determine if a c string is a palindrome using begin and end pointers, incrementing/decrementing them respectively. But most of it is personal choice. A lot of times we will only allow pointer traversal on a part of an exam if we are trying to test it since it is doable both ways, so it's best to get comfortable with both styles.


# **Question 24**: Is (int* arptr) as a parameter function the same as (int arr[]) as a parameter?  

**Answer**: yep, array decay causes arr[] to become a pointer just like arptr.




# **Question 25**: When do the autograder attempts reset every day?

**Answer**: At midnight


# **Question 26**: When a struct is passed as a pointer to a function, which variable's address does the pointer contain since a struct has multiple member variables.

**Answer**: The pointer would point to the starting memory address of the struct, which is the same as the address of the first member variable listed in the struct when it is defined. 

So the answer would be the first variable's address. 


# **Question 27**: I'm a little confused about data abstraction. Is it saying that a struct's variables are details we shouldn't need to know about and that we should only know how to use functions that use the member variables?

**Answer**: This part of the course notes explains the concept to data abstraction clearly, and I would recommend reading it: https://eecs280staff.github.io/notes/02_ProceduralAbstraction_Testing.html#procedural-abstraction


# **Question 28**: When do we use redirection of input and output vs ifstream and ofstream?

**Answer**: redirection of input is useful when you're making a program that ordinarily prints/takes input to/from the command line and you want to capture the output into a different file. A program is more likely to use input redirection would be one that usually uses the command line.

For programs that are designed to output to a file or take file as the primary input, input redirection is not recommended because adding input redirection can modify the number of args passed into the argv array, which could potentially cause an error if your driver program isn't anticipating input redirection. Then, we would want to use fstreams.


# **Question 29**: I can't seem to find the slides for lecture 8, when will they be posted to the google drive?

**Answer**: Here are the lecture 8 slides if you are still looking for them: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1oremOeladleedmooqf9Q4MJoY-hGOWWb/view?usp=share_link




# **Question 30**: Hi,  My partner and I are struggling to get the 10/10 points for catching bugs with our Matrix_tests.cpp. We have continuously lost points and gained points seemingly at random.   We received 10/10 in this category on a submission made May 19th at about 7pm. After that, we removed one test within a larger test function that was getting a false positive according to the autograder (I know that I removed only the part that was getting a false positive because I stopped getting that message for later submissions without changing the other parts of that test function.) However, in spite of only making the changes that were causing their own issues, our score dropped to 2/10. Even if those 2-3 tests were catching autograder bugs, I don't understand how taking out those total 10 lines of code (including cout statements) could have made us lose 8 points on the autograder.  I have even submitted the same file twice (copy pasted the entire file from the autograder submission that got 10/10 -- only taking out the part that had previously received a false positive -- and resubmitted it today, May 20th at about 8:50pm, alongside my other, updated, files) and our score is still stuck at 2/10 for the Matrix_cpp.tests. There is only one unique aspect to the test cases that were causing false positives, so I reasonably think that that unique aspect must also be what the Autograder is giving us points for. However, I don't know how to continue submitting those test cases if they are giving us false positives.   Is there something I am missing? Why are we scoring so low on the autograder's tests for Matrix_tests.cpp after briefly scoring 10/10? Should we continue submitting files with test cases that are returning false positives just to get the Matrix_tests points? Will submitting files with false positives harm our score in the end?  Thank you

**Answer**: I would take a second look at the unit testing framework. I am not sure how you caught 10/10 bugs the first time around since you weren't using the assert statements needed to signal to the program that there was an issue in that submission. After looking at your test file there are some issues with the way you structure your tests. I submitted one of the files you submitted to the AG that got a 10/10 and got a 0/10 myself. So there is something strange going on.

My guess is, the only bugs you are catching in your latest submission are the ones in which the buggy instructor solution intentionally goes out of bounds, hence violating the RME and failing the assert statements inside the Matrix_at() function in Matrix.cpp, for example.

What I would do is modify all your test cases to use ASSERT_TRUE(), ASSERT_EQUAL(), etc. like we require in the unit testing framework. This is the way you are supposed to catch bugs in this class. While print statements are useful for local testing, im pretty sure that the autograder is only checking for failures in the unit test framework. Could you try doing this, resubmitting, and then following up on this post?

 There are office hours tomorrow also if you need help with doing this :) we are happy to help!


# **Question 31**: I am running public tests on my processing.cpp file, and am getting this error. I tried using the debugger but am still not able to find what could be wrong. What could I do to figure it out?    "Testing dog seam carve 4x5...zsh: segmentation fault ./processing_public_tests.exe"

**Answer**: That error alone doesn't tell you (or I) much. a segfault is easiest to catch in the debugger because you can step up the stack frames in the debugger to figure out what line is causing it. Here's a guide if you haven't seen this already. If not, just come to office hours tomorrow and we will sort it out.




# **Question 32**: What is this format? Is this a way to initialize a string?

**Answer**: From a google search, it looks like it is a constructor for a string object, taking in a size_t (a whole number) and a character.
https://cplusplus.com/reference/string/string/string/

from the article, here's the syntax: 

string (size_t n, char c);

The string is composed of the character you pass in, and n is the number of times it repeats. 


# **Question 33**: Why is it that string literals can't be used but strings can? Aren't they the same?  Also, why is it enough to change just one of the sides of the comparison to a string and not both?  

**Answer**: C-strings and strings are different data types. They are both strings, in terms of functionality. agrv is an array of C-strings, so argv[1] returns a C-string. The lab 4 slides from today do a good job providing an overview of the differences between C-strings and strings in terms of how you interact with each them in different contexts (see slides 6 and 7): https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1HJn8ZgilKB51x9i5uXK_55ULmoHnaG9V0ok4TSkrBA4/edit?usp=share_link




# **Question 34**: I am confused as to why casting doesn't work in this example. What is the difference between casting and a conversion function?

**Answer 0**: i believe this would cast the character as its ascii value, so 'A' would be cast to 65.
**Answer 1**: This article does a good job explaining the differences between type casting and type conversion: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/difference-between-type-casting-and-type-conversion/ 

The key takeaway is that type casting can be used for compatible and incompatible data types, where as type conversion can only be used with compatible data types. The example you posted is using type conversion. agrv[i] returns a C-string, which is not a compatible type with int (which is why the line of code that you circled does not work.) 


# **Question 35**: What is a null pointer?

**Answer**: A null pointer is a pointer that has been set to nullptr (or it can also be set to NULL), which means that the pointer is not holding an address. You cannot deference a nullptr. If you dereference a null pointer your program will crash. 

You can think of a null pointer as "void."



int *ptr_1; 

int *ptr_2 = nullptr; 


Note: a null pointer is not the same as an undefined pointer. In the code of above, in the first line, ptr_1 is undefined and stores some random junk address (because we have not explicitly stored a particular address at that pointer, all that was done was declaring a pointer not defining it). In the second line, ptr_2 is a null pointer. In other words a pointer has to be explicitly set to null. 


# **Question 36**: Do regular c++ strings automatically have a null character at the end?  

**Answer**: The stack overflow post goes into those details: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/11752705/does-stdstring-have-a-null-terminator

It is not really a detail you need to be concerned about in this class. The main thing that you should understand is that by definition, C-strings always have a sentinel value (also called null terminator) at the end. 




# **Question 37**: Do the course notes have the same information as the lectures? Or is it something we should be going over to get additional information?

**Answer**: The course notes cover the same topics are the lecture slides/lecture.


# **Question 38**: Are we not allowed to use loops for any of the functions in matrix.cpp?  For the matrix_print function how do I print the values without a for loop?

**Answer**: You should use loops where you think it's appropriate. And if you are still unsure, feel free to come to office hours some time today. 


# **Question 39**: When I use "endl" in my code, it is saying the identifier endl is undefined. Im not sure how to fix this.

**Answer**: Did you include "using namespace std" at the top of your file? If you didn't, you can fix your error by either adding that line at the top of your file or replacing endl with std::endl




# **Question 40**: Is there an assert statement for this requires clause?

**Answer**: A general rule of thumb is to write assert statements for require clauses when possible.  However not all require clauses translate well into simple/straightforward assert statements. In those cases you can omit including an assert statement. 


# **Question 41**: Something I've noticed is that I have been having a really hard time connecting the topics we learn about in lecture to the actual projects. I can understand something in lecture and be completely lost when trying to apply it to my projects. I don't think if this is something other people struggle with, but is there any advice on how I can go about this? The only way I can actually know how to write a function is if I go to office hours and get walked through it. I'm not sure that's the best way I should be going about it.  This may be a silly question... but I really don't know how I should be going about this.

**Answer**: When I took this class, I also had the same issue. For me personally, I struggled to see the  overall big picture of the projects in how they connected to the lecture content because I later realized I didn't actually know the content. I just had like a working, surface level understanding of things like I knew the vocabulary (the what) but not the why and how. I felt like I knew because I knew the words and their basic definitions, but I truly did not know the why so I'd get really confused (often) on certain aspects of the projects. It wasn't until a took an earnest look at the material for the exams that I began to clearly see how the lecture content was connected and overall objectives/themes tested in each project. 

My recommendations would be: 

1. Explain concepts in your own words in your notes (beyond definitions - try breaking down/annotating definitions)

2. Ask yourself, if someone where to ask to explain a concept or a piece of code would you be able to do it clearly (if you are shaky on this then you should probably keep learning that concept)  

3. Practice explaining code. (You can do this by writing more detailed comments in your code and when you go to office hours verbally repeat/summarize what you learned to make sure you actually understood)  

4. In office hours you can just ask what/how/why whatever you are working on relates to lecture

Sorry for the monologue - but hope this helps! 


# **Question 42**: In Matrix_row and Matrix_column functions, does element mean the value or the index?  If it is value, what do we do if the matrix has that value more than once?

**Answer**: value. The matrix should work with duplicates as you can use pointer arithmetic to calculate the unique index. of the element, even if it is a duplicate


# **Question 43**: In the debugger, how can I know if a pointer variable is holding the right address?

**Answer**: I usually use watch variables. Navigate to the debug pane on the left side of the editor. Start debugging. You'll see a panel beneath the variables section called "watch". Here, you can press the + sign and type any expression you want to keep an eye on. if you want to check the value that ptr points to, you can do *ptr as your watch expression, which will give the value that the ptr points to (as long as your breakpoint is somewhere in scope of the variable). You shouldn't need to check the address of a pointer, as this is not managed by you so it should be correct. 




# **Question 44**: Do p3 specs come out today or tomorrow?

**Answer**: Probably tomorrow


# **Question 45**: I just tried to submit to the autograder and am receiving this error and am unable to see the results of my submit. Is anyone else experiencing this? I am a little concerned considering the project is due tonight...

**Answer 0**: same here
**Answer 1**: We are aware of the issue and have informed the autograder team. We should have an update shortly.


# **Question 46**: Do I have to use assert statements for these?

**Answer**: you don't have to write any assert statements in all of your code, technically. But if you wanted to write these it would look something like:


// EDIT: dont do this
assert(seam.size() == Image_height(img))
...
// inside your loop somewhere
assert(seam[i] >= 0 && seam[i] < Image_width(img))








# **Question 47**: For the remove_verticle_seam function, after I make a copy of the image in a smaller matrix, do I resize the original matrix before I copy the image back into the original matrix? Or do I not resize the original matrix?

**Answer**: you should just be able to set the old image equal to the new image.


# **Question 48**: Do I print both these error messages for any of the errors or do I print the error message that relates to the error?

**Answer**: for all errors, you will print the entire message, and then exit or return with a nonzero number.


# **Question 49**: Are comments graded?

**Answer**: No you don't need to worry about comments


# **Question 50**: When I try to submit to the autogravder, it says the due date has passed, but I though the due date was moved to tomorrow?

**Answer 0**: I'm having the same issue!


**Answer 1**: I'm also having the same issue.


# **Question 51**: What does .str() mean?

**Answer**: .str() converts a stringstream to a string to ensure we are using the same type in the ASSERT_EQUAL


# **Question 52**: Are there private test cases for style? Or is the style grade determined only from the autogravder we see right now?

**Answer**: There are no private style tests. The only ones are the oclint ones you can already see on the autograder. 


# **Question 53**: Will there be office hours on Memorial Day next Monday?

**Answer**: Office hours will not be held on Memorial Day. 


# **Question 54**: Content from which lectures will be present in the Midterm?   

**Answer**: Anything covered in lecture is fair game for the midterm. 


# **Question 55**: Hi, I'm trying to use wget to retrieve the starter files via the link on the specs, but for some reason, I'm getting this error? I've tried checking my connection to github (according to the version control tutorial) and I've had a look at this link (

**Answer**: You can paste the url in a browser (Chrome, Safari, or etc.) and download the files that way (via the browser) until you are able to get the wget command working. 


# **Question 56**: Hi! Will the solutions to the lab 4 delivery problem be posted?   Thank you!

**Answer**: The solutions for lab 4 are available on google drive!


# **Question 57**: for the implementation of card_less, does the rank of the led card matter? or is only the suit important? thanks!

**Answer 0**: realized im pretty sure it does, in case the led card is the left bower.
**Answer 1**: Yes, the rank matters when the rank is specifically a jack of the trump/next suit (R/L bower)


# **Question 58**: Since the ranks and suits of the cards are assigned to an enum data type, is it possible for me to directly access the number of the rank/suit of the card instead of the title? In the function is_face_or_ace, instead of having 4 conditions in the if statement checking if the rank of the card is either king/queen/jack/ace, if I can simply access the number that the rank is assigned to (eg "JACK" is assigned the value 9), I can implement a simple if(suit>=9) which would be faster. Is it also possible to do this the other way around, where I implement it like this: if(suit>=JACK) ? Please let me know which of the two methods is correct.  Also, do we have to implement the friend function(friend std::istream & operator>>(std::istream &is, Card &card);)?

**Answer**: either is correct, but i would use the second option since it is clearer. 

For your second question, yeah you do have to implement the >> operator for the card class. 


# **Question 59**: Suit Suit_next(Suit suit)  {   return static_cast<Suit>((suit + 2) % 4);  }  In this sample of code, I used static_cast to convert the integer answer of the operation to a suit/enum data type. If I don't use static_cast, then my function doesn't work. Is this because the enum data type of 'suit' is converted to an integer?

**Answer**: yep, the integer addition/ mod operation you do makes the expression evaluate to an int. then, you have to convert it back to Suit


# **Question 60**: Hi, I'm currently writing my Card.cpp and I'm not sure if I should put the operator overrides inside the private/ public/ or entirely outside of the card class. In Card.hpp I saw that there was a copy of the >> operator in private written as a friend function as an example (?) of a possible configuration so I did that with my functions in Card.cpp? I'm not sure if I'm on the right track with that

**Answer**: The operators should go outside of the class, like they are in the Card.hpp file


# **Question 61**: working on the human player and have found the excerpt on always ensuring the hand of a human player is sorted. is this also applicable to the simple player? if not, is it actively harmful to do so to the simple player (if the autograder would not accept sorted simple player hands as correct)? thanks!

**Answer**: you can sort the simple player's hand if you would like, if that makes it easier!


# **Question 62**: Why do we pass things by pointer instead of by reference? In project 2, why couldn't we have passed things to functions by reference?

**Answer**: I think the main reason we passed by pointer in p2 because previous iterations of the project used pointers and dynamically allocated matrices (which is easier to implement with pass by pointer), and we just didn't change that aspect. There's not really a reason to do one over the other when we are not dealing with dynamic memory.




# **Question 63**: Why for the C++ implementation, we have to use vectors and can't use an array?  

**Answer**: It's just the purpose of the exercise. You could accomplish the same function with an array. (note: most c code can be copied over to in c++ with no issues, like the example above would work in c++ without any issues)


You can use arrays in c++, but since vectors exist in c++ and are easier to use in a lot of ways, if you're writing in c++ and are able to use the standard library that comes with c++, vectors are the better option.




# **Question 64**: I am retaking this course but I am doing euchre with a different partner than last time, is it considered a violation of the Honor Code if I use parts of the code that I personally worked on within the euchre project last time for this time as well?  

**Answer**: We don't consider it an honor code violation to reuse your own code, but we strongly encourage re-implementing the project from scratch this term. Especially if you're working with a new partner, it would take away from the opportunity to fully work on all parts of the project for them if you're starting with previous code.


# **Question 65**: According to the implementation, the lowest card in a higher row should have a higher value than the highest card in a lower value. So does this mean (for example) that if I picked the king of spades, and the queen of aces, the king of spades would have the higher value?      

**Answer**: Yes, any King will be higher value than any Queen (assuming you are not taking trump or led suit into account).


# **Question 66**: Is this a correct implementation of the ctor function that uses an input stream?  Should I instead create a new card variable and read into that instead of reading into card at the array index directly? My only suspicion is if this will cause a memory leak in my code.

**Answer**: This seems fine to me. You should not need to create a new dynamic card each time.


# **Question 67**: What is the advantage of using auto and not char in this example?  

**Answer 0**: There's not really an advantage here as far as I can tell. using auto is (almost) always personal choice. Looks like they decided to use auto instead of char. 

Generally, you use auto when the type names are not convenient to type out, and we can infer the type from the initialization.


**Answer 1**: In this particular quiz, auto was used since the intent of the quiz was to check if students understood auto :)




# **Question 68**: What is a.out?

**Answer**: the name of the executable file. when you compile on the command line without a makefile, and without an -o tag, ie:

g++ Graphics.cpp Triangle.cpp

the executable generated is a.out by default. however if we were to specify the name of the executable:

g++ Graphics.cpp Triangle.cpp -o myExecutable.exe

the -o flag sets the executable file generated to have a name of myExecutable.exe.


# **Question 69**: What is the purpose of using enums? Also, when we assign a variable of a enum type do we also use all caps?

**Answer**: enums are used to create a constant data type (ie. for a enum type of colors, you couldn't add a new color to our color enum type after it has been declared). This makes them good for storing and referencing data efficiently. 

Here's an example: In the case of Euchre, instead of an enum class, we could store an array of strings for all the different suits/ranks (in fact, we did this in earlier versions of the project!). However, storing an array of strings takes up a lot of memory, takes a lot of time to compare suits/ranks, and has more functionality than we need. But using any other primitive data type as a replacement for the strings (like int, double, char) while it makes the suits/ranks easier to compare with one another, isn't really readable to someone looking at your code.

So then the question becomes: how can we store data in a way that is readable, but also efficient to make comparisons? That's where enums come in. Enums are the best of both worlds.


With enums, we can store and use the values of an enum efficiently because enums have a default underlying data type of int. We can compare ints quite fast when compared to a string. However, unlike using an array of ints, our enum type has custom names like "JACK", "KING", and "QUEEN" which makes the code we write way easier to understand to someone reading it for the first time.

As for your second question, no they don't have to be all caps. In EECS 280, we use it as a convention to represent things that are const. 

(that was a lot, so let me know if I can clarify anything)


# **Question 70**: Do we get hints for finding bugs for our own player tests?  

**Answer**: No


# **Question 71**: When would you use private vs protected? 

**Answer**: https://www.w3schools.com/cpp/cpp_access_specifiers.asp#:~:text=private%20%2D%20members%20cannot%20be%20accessed,be%20accessed%20in%20inherited%20classes.

private - members cannot be accessed (or viewed) from outside the class

protected - members cannot be accessed from outside the class, however, they can be accessed in inherited classes

we don't use protected for eecs280 projects.




# **Question 72**: Did we talk about operator overloading? I remember talking about function overloading when we talked about constructors, but I don't remember talking about operator overloading. 

**Answer**: Looking at the slides in the Google Drive, it looks like operator overloading isn’t mentioned until the end of Lecture 11. If you would like to get a bit ahead, I would recommend the async video and exercise here: https://jamesjuett.github.io/eecs280-async-lectures/lec_09_inheritance/exams/eecs280-eecs280-lec_09_inheritance.html 


# **Question 73**: For player.cpp, are we expected to create derived classes for the simple player and the human player? If so, should we be modifying the player.hpp file?   

**Answer**: Yes, you will make derived classes but in the cpp file.


# **Question 74**: I am confused about what this function is supposed to do. Is this just for the case of a Jack?  

**Answer**: when we set a trump suit, the left bower becomes part of the trump suit. get_suit() without the trump parameter cannot say that the LB is of the trump suit because the card that becomes the LB is relative to what the trump suit is. to fix this, we defined two get_suit functions, one that just gets the literal suit on the card, and one that checks for a LB. 


# **Question 75**: 

**Answer**: yes


# **Question 76**: What is lhs and rhs? Also how can they be the same card if all the cards are unique?

**Answer 0**: left-hand side and right-hand side when comparing the card. You wouldn't actually get the exact same card but that's just how you'll be comparing them.
**Answer 1**: lhs: left hand side and rhs: right hand side. These operators are just in general for any card, not just within the game of euchre.
 Another reason would be that you need to implement == for test cases to verify the output your test produces is equal to the correct card. 


# **Question 77**: I think I understand it, but what is the actual distinction between using . and ->     Thank you!

**Answer**: The dot operator (.) is used on objects but the arrow operator (->) is used with pointers.              ptr->member_variable is equivalent to this syntax (*ptr).member_variable. The  ->  use the dot operator to access that specific member variable associated with that object stored at that pointer but first the pointer has to be dereferenced. 

Slide 35 on lab 4 mentions this at the bottom of the slide: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1HJn8ZgilKB51x9i5uXK_55ULmoHnaG9V0ok4TSkrBA4/edit?usp=sharing




# **Question 78**: What does this format mean?

**Answer**: It creates a std::array of type Card  with size PACK_SIZE . It is named cards . 

The statement above is more or less equivalent to doing:

Card cards[PACK_SIZE];

std::array is basically the class version of a regular array in c++, which means it is an object, unlike a regular array in c++. The standard array (std::array) has iterators and member functions like any other container ADT.
See: https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/container/array

(note: you have not learned about iterators yet in lecture as they are scheduled for June 10th. This is a p4 concept so you can revisit the last paragraph after you've covered it in lecture)




# **Question 79**: What is meant by dynamically allocated memory?  

**Answer**: Memory that is allocated on the heap as opposed to the stack. Another way to put it is the player objects in the array are all created using dynamic memory (ie. the new keyword).  This content is in the course notes and in the lectures from today (5/30) and yesterday (5/29). Here are the course notes defining what dynamic memory is. 




# **Question 80**: I was wondering if there is any way to see what cards each of the players have in their hand besides figuring it out from pack.in. Since there is no variable that stores the name or the hand in Player.hpp, the debugger can't show the name or the hand of any of the players and I was wondering how I can see/access those things in the debugger.

**Answer**: (If your simple and human player classes do not have a hand vector, you are doing something wrong.)

That being said, if it is specifically a problem because they are of Player type and not Simple/Human player type, have you tried creating a watch variable?

#61 goes into detail on how to make a watch variable.

I think you can just do:

players[i]->hand,  and players[i]->name, etc as watch variables (change your vector of players name/ index variable as it matches in your code)




# **Question 81**: I am confused on why option E is incorrect

**Answer**: It would work if the vector were of *Animal , but since the vector is of type Animal (not a pointer), all subclasses that would put into the vector become sliced, and therefore not stored properly.




# **Question 82**: For the functions in the player class, how do we implement them without any variables like name? are we supposed to create our own private member variables?  Also, do the declarations of the simple and human player classes go in the hpp file and implementations of the functions in the cpp file? Or does the declaration also go in the cpp file?

**Answer**: do not modify the player.hpp file at all!!! all modifications go into the Player.cpp file. The AG does not read any hpp files for projects 1,2, or 3 so any work you put there will not be graded.


declare member variables as you see fit within the derived classes, not the player class.





# **Question 83**: Are we supposed to include the assert statement and return nullptr into our code also?

**Answer**: The assert(false) statements are included so that the file is compilable without specific coding implementation. That is also the purpose of return nullptr  as well because the function expects a pointer to be returned. 

You should delete the assert(false) and return nullptr once you ready to write your implementation for the function Player_factory()


# **Question 84**: I was in office hours, and the meeting got cut short, and I was wondering how to go about implementing these test cases for test_player_add_card, and test_player_add_and_discard. I want to be able to access the hand vector, but cannot given that it is private. Is there a way that you would recommend going about this? Attached are screenshots of both test functions so far.  

**Answer**: A method you can use to check that that correct card got added to the player's hand is to call play_card() (after having called add_card()). You would compare the output from play_card() to the correct card the player should have played. 

For example: 

alice->add_card(nine_hearts) 

ASSERT_TRUE(alice->play_card() == nine_hearts)


Ultimately, you can use the play_card() function to double check that a player has the correct cards. 


# **Question 85**: I am confused as to what this part is asking to do. Am I supposed to make an invariants function?

**Answer**: what do you mean by an "invariants function"?


# **Question 86**: Have I coded the function right? Essentially, if the pack is empty, then the next value is initialised to the index of the last card, plus one. So 23+1=24.    Code 1: bool Pack::empty() const  {   return (next == PACK_SIZE);  }

**Answer**: I would test the function to see if it works the way you intended it to work.


# **Question 87**: So for this part, the specs say this: "If a Human Player is the dealer and someone orders up during the first round of making, the Human Player will pick up the upcard and discard a card of their choice. ". So are we suppose to check if the human player is dealer and those conditions in player.cpp or that is the euchre.cpp part?  

**Answer**: that logic would be in the euchre.cpp file. 


# **Question 88**:   How do we determine the i in hand.erase(hand.begin() + i); if we don't know the position of the card in the hand vector?  

**Answer**: the point of the add and discard, play and lead card function is to determine the position of the card to remove/play.

some tips: ensure your hand is always sorted by sorting when you add the card. 
Then when you are looping through your hand, keep track of the current index you want to remove. 


# **Question 89**: Why is it that the final cout is 0? Do you know if you could please explain what is occurring at each step? 

**Answer**: 1st cout: this statement is equivalent to cout << arr[2], so we print out 0.

second cout: int *ptr = arr + 1;  makes ptr point to the second element in the array, so 2. ptr = ptr + *ptr; is equivalent to ptr = ptr + 2, which makes ptr point to 3. 

third cout: *ptr_ptr points to ptr initially, see below.

*ptr_ptr = ptr - **ptr_ptr;  means that the value of ptr_ptr (which is ptr) should be subtracted by **ptr_ptr, which has a value of 3. This statement can therefore be written in another way as: ptr = ptr - 3; . This means that ptr now points at 4. The picture below shows the result. Note that what ptr_ptr was pointing to was not changed, it was only the value of ptr_ptr that was changed (ptr)

Finally, we subtract *ptr_ptr - ptr . Remember that *ptr_ptr is just ptr. So written another way, ptr-ptr = 0.

Hopefully this helps. FWIW, I also struggled with this question the first time around, but drawing a picture is what helped me get through the last part :)




# **Question 90**: I created a string private member variable for the player's name for the simple player class in player.cpp. When I'm running my public tests. I'm getting a segmentation fault 11. I'm not sure why since the parameters for the base class and the derived class are matching.  My latest submission is on the Autograder. Thank you!

**Answer**: The player factory function in your code returns a nullptr. 

Player *Player_factory(const string &name, const string &strategy){
       Player *pointer = nullptr;
       return pointer;
}


When you try to dereference that nullptr in your test code, that causes a segmentation fault:

 Player * alice = Player_factory("Alice", "Simple");
 ASSERT_EQUAL("Alice", alice->get_name());



# **Question 91**: Not sure how to write the one that takes in the led card without copying code from the other.

**Answer**: you can call the first card_less in the second one! this should reduce code duplication


# **Question 92**: hey! i'm wrapping up the logic of euchre.cpp and am writing tests to ensure all components are working to help locate bugs. in submitting to the autograder i've found both that my pack's public tests seem to be failing despite working on my computer (WSL), and also that i am failing almost all of the UB checks with address sanitizer error output despite not encountering address sanitizer issues on my computer.  for pack: would it be helpful to run on caen?  for UB: would it help to place assert statements to check if the RME of a function is met?  any other advice would be appreciated. thanks!

**Answer**: ended up finding a lot more bugs and UB went away as i fixed them. probably the most straightforward thing that could have happened thankfully!


# **Question 93**: Should the operator overloads take into account both suit and rank or just rank?    bool operator<(const Card &lhs, const Card &rhs);  bool operator>(const Card &lhs, const Card &rhs);  

**Answer**: It should account for both. If the ranks are equal, break ties by suit (does not consider Trump suit for operator overloads).


# **Question 94**: Isn't there a shuffle function is Pack.cpp? Why do we need another one? Also, what does play_hand function mean?

**Answer**: These are suggestions for functions you Game class could have. Your Game class could have a shuffle() function that handles all the shuffling aspects of the game, so probably just checking if shuffling is enabled and calling Pack::shuffle(). deal() and make_trump() would handle those phases of the game, and play_hand() probably handles playing an entire round. 

You ideally want to split up functionality into functions like this and smaller because it organizes your code better, makes your code prettier, and probably makes debugging a lot easier. These were just suggestions for how you could do it, but anything that makes sense to you works too.


# **Question 95**: How do I make sure in round 2 of making trump that the dealer makes trump if everyone else passes?

**Answer**: SimplePlayers should already do that, and HumanPlayers are assumed to follow all the rules. You aren’t expected to handle a case where a HumanPlayer cheats or doesn’t follow the screw the dealer rules. However, just so that way it doesn’t do weird stuff in your own testing, I would place an assert(false) if somehow both rounds of making trump happen without the trump being made.


# **Question 96**: For the tests for cards.cpp, do we have to test every single function including the operator overloading functions?

**Answer**: If you want to get all the points, testing every single function/operator is a good place to start (although it doesn't guarantee full points). If you haven't tested all of them and you don't have all the points, I definitely would test them




# **Question 97**: Do we have lecture tomorrow (6/4)? I noticed that we don't have lab so I was just wondering if that means we don't have lecture either.

**Answer**: According to the website it says lecture is tomorrow, covering linked lists 


# **Question 98**: My debugger is launching, but it's exiting immediately with -1. I'm not sure why this is happening.

**Answer**: Are you setting a breakpoint at the very beginning of main when you run?


# **Question 99**: How do I empty each player's hand at the beginning of each round?

**Answer**: playing/leading cards should remove the card from the players hand. So assuming you did 5 tricks, at the end of each round you should have no cards remaining in the player’s hands


# **Question 100**: Hi,  I made a few submits to the autograder today, and I made one submit shortly before the time the project was due. The most recent submission scored less on the public tests than the second-to-most recent submission. Will the most recent submission or the submission with the highest score on public tests be graded for my and my partner's final grade?  Thank you!  

**Answer**: The submission with the highest score overall (including public and private tests) will be counted for your grade.


# **Question 101**: For each hang of a game, do we reshuffle the cards, or keep it the way it is after the first time we shuffle it?

**Answer**: reshuffle the cards


# **Question 102**: For the euchre_test01.out.correct output. Why is the played card by Gabriel a Nine of Clubs, when she has a Diamonds card. Since, the led card is diamonds, shouldn't she also be playing diamonds?  

**Answer**: The only diamond that Gabriel has is the Jack of Diamonds. Recall that trump is Hearts in this hand. Therefore, the left bower is the Jack of Diamonds. The left bower belongs to the suit of the trump suit. So in this case, the Jack of Diamonds that Gabriel has is actually considered a Heart.




# **Question 103**: When running the human output example. I am getting this segmentation fault but I am not sure what is causing this.

**Answer**: You'll have to step up the call stack in order to see where the segfault is happening. 

The debugging guide goes more in depth on how to address these errors: https://eecs280staff.github.io/tutorials/debugging_guide.html#crash-in-my-code




# **Question 104**: In order to out put this I have tried to loop through the argv[] vector, but it is says it is undefined. Is this because I am using argv[] before the main function? Is there a way I can use arg[]?

**Answer**: You should just be using argv[] as a parameter in the main function. You can make member variables and functions in euchre.cpp if there are command line arguments you want to save to use elsewhere. Feel free to make a private post with screenshots of your code if there is something more specific you are referring to 




# **Question 105**: The midterm info doc says "You may use one note sheet, 8.5"x11", double-sided, with your name on it." Does that mean we can bring a cheat sheet with whatever we want on it?

**Answer**: Yes you can put anything you want on the cheat sheet. The only requirement is that you wrote it yourself (ie you didnt make a copy of a friend's)




# **Question 106**: Is the cheat sheet a size of a printer paper? Also, can it be printed and have pictures on it?

**Answer**: Yes the cheat sheet is a standard 8.5x11 printer paper. It can be printed and can have pictures on it.


# **Question 107**: Hello!  I was just wondering if we're allowed to use the assert function through the cassert library on the midterm to test the requires clause.

**Answer 0**: usually there will be a statement on the cover page of the exam telling you to assume any necessary #include s are present in your code. so if you need to use assert() somewhere, it will be allowed as long as the question doesn't disallow it.


**Answer 1**: Usually having to enforce the requires clause with assert() will not be required for a question, but you can if you want.


# **Question 108**: what is wrong with 3d?  also is 3c wrong because it says Book favBook(price_in); would it be correct if it was just favBook(price_in)?

**Answer**: Since favBook is not initialized in the member initializer list, the program will try to create one using its default constructor before performing assignment on line 3. However, it doesn’t have a default constructor, so it probably wouldn’t compile.3

3c is wrong because it creates another variable called favBook. This also wouldn’t work because our first favBook would try to be initialized with a default constructor. For that same reason, you cannot just do favBook(price_in) outside of the member initializer list. Even if favBook did have a default constructor, favBook(price_in) would be attempting to call an overloaded () operator, which was not defined, so you get a compiler error. 


# **Question 109**: Where is BBB 1690?

**Answer**: When you walk into the BBB from the main (south) entrance and go straight, that should either be 1670 or 1690. If it’s 1670, then turn left (west) and it’s at the end of the hall. 


# **Question 110**: When can we expect to receive our midterm grades?

**Answer**: We've sent them out this morning. You should have an email with all the details. Gradescope has your raw score and graded exam, Canvas has your curved score. Any regrade requests are due by Tuesday at 8pm.


# **Question 111**: Hi, I was wondering why option A is correct, during the exam I was thinking that it's incorrect because there's no & before the c, that's why I thought B was right and A was wrong. 

**Answer 0**: I just put the classes in a compiler and tried option A and it didn't work, here's a screenshot 




**Answer 1**: There was a typo on this question and we will be making a correction- not sure exactly what the correction will be exactly yet but it will be in everyone’s favor (or neutral). I’m sure there will be an announcement tomorrow regarding it.


# **Question 112**: Did the P4 overview session take place on Thursday as scheduled? I can't find the link for the recording or slides.

**Answer**: The recording will be posted today.


# **Question 113**: the program2 should have some error on line 4 which cause the undefined 

**Answer**: undefined behavior would only occur when you are using the result of ptr2 in some way, ie. printing it. Since we don’t do that in program 2, there is no undefined behavior occurring. 


# **Question 114**: Hi, I've been getting the red squiggly under #include <ncurses.h> and I'm not sure how to fix it? I searched it up online and a source said to try curses.h bc it's more portable or something but that didn't work either... 

**Answer**: also if you haven't run 


brew install ncurses


on MacOS, or

sudo apt install libncurses5-dev


on Windows, you may need to run that. This is used specifically for interactive testing of the text editor.


# **Question 115**: After checking both the solution in gradescope and the official one on google drive, I'm 100% believe that one of my multiple choice is graded incorrectly ( I clearly bubble the right option, but it marked me wrong, and I also didn't bubble neither boxes next to it). So my question is when I can submit a regrade request, and also would they grade my whole entire test again or just simply fix it ? 

**Answer**: we regrade only the question you submit a regrade for. 


# **Question 116**: Hi, am I able to go to one of the later lab sections for tomorrow? I am away and cannot make it to section 301.

**Answer**: resolved!


# **Question 117**: When will the Project 4 overview be posted? 

**Answer**: It is posted.


# **Question 118**: What should I do if I got a 48% on the midterm? I've been doing good on projects, but don't usually do very well on exams. I really want to pass the class but don't know what to do anymore because I don't think I've ever gotten over an 80% on an exam.  Please don't judge for my horrible score ;-; Just feeling very discouraged right now...

**Answer 0**: First, I want to say that I have been there before and these kind of things happen to the best of us. Sometimes you're just not feeling it for an exam and life just gets to you. It is not fun to be in your position, but the good news is I do think you will be able to pass the class if you go into the second half of the course with a clear goal in mind. 

If 48 is the curved score, then you need to get at least an 82 on the final in order to meet the minimum exam  threshold for the course (in addition to having a C or better overall - see syllabus). With this time frame, this is definitely doable, although it will take time, so start now.

Here are some suggestions. If you haven't already: 
Review your midterm exam in detail. Figure out what things you got wrong in every question. If you have questions that are blank/mostly blank/mostly incorrect, reattempt the problem, ideally without the answer key as reference (and instead use your notes/lecture notes to supplement if you need). Check your answers once you're done, and if you're not sure still if they are right, come to office hours and we can look over the exam together! 
That brings me to another important thing: office hours. I cannot stress enough that office hours are really not busy throughout the week, save for the few days before a project deadline. On these less busy days, there is much more 1 on 1 time so we can really work through solutions/review content for the final. 

Finally, I would keep in mind that practice makes "perfect". The more review sessions/exams/practice problems you attempt for the final the better you will do. When taking a practice exam, try and emulate the conditions as best you can to prepare (only 110 minutes, quiet room, pencil and paper, no devices/breaks, etc). There are only so many types of questions we can ask on an exam, so the more questions you see during practice, the more prepared you will be. And, the important part of taking a practice exam: grade your exam. You will learn significantly less if you do not review your answers and pinpoint what exactly you got wrong and how you should fix it. I like to write out the common mistakes I made on practice exams as "reminders" on my cheat sheet so I don't repeat the same mistake during the actual exam. 


I get that you have not yet learned all the content yet for the exam so maybe you won't be taking practice exams for a while, but a good resource to "test your knowledge" after every lecture in person is the async lectures, which have their own exercises you can try out. The course notes are also extremely helpful if you need extra examples than what are provided in lecture.

Hopefully this helps you, good luck, and you got this :)

PS, this is also a good thing to talk to course faculty, ie Professor Razak or Juett, about. They may have some other strategies for you as well.
**Answer 1**: Yes! Everything Tea said was great. Please come to office hours. We love answering questions about exam questions and class material.

I would also like to add on that it might be worth examining how effective for note taking or study strategies are. Everyone in this class is capable of passing this class (even if it doesn’t feel like it right now), but it might just be one small thing that is preventing you from doing so. 

What has been working for me so far has just been being stubborn and refusing to move on unless I understand something incredibly well (even if I’m cramming a few days before the final 💀). I like to hand write my notes while putting the info in my own words, going back and adding comments to my notes in a different color, and circling/underlining/highlighting stuff that seemed really important. Maybe I’ll draw a crappy picture to illustrate whatever is happening or rewrite code examples by hand. It takes a lot of time to move through a lecture, but I found that the time I put in learning it really well at the start means I spend much less time reviewing it later on. 

You still have like two weeks before the final, which is definitely enough time to study enough to do well. For some of the written coding questions, I think it would be a really idea to make sure you understand how you implemented the functions for List in P4 and BinarySearchTree later in P5 because written questions involving writing a List or BST function might have a solutions that’s very similar to something you’ve done in a project. There are also many LeetCode Easy s that would be good practice.


# **Question 119**: Hi, are there virtual office hours today?

**Answer**: there should be.


# **Question 120**: If a cursor is equivalent to a past-the-end iterator, would it be pointing at the last node or would it be equivalent to a '\n' node?  In this image, would the end pointer's final (row, column) be (2,5) or would it be (2,4)?  Also in the case of an empty data where both first and last are nullptrs, would the cursor be located at (1,0)?  

**Answer**: 1. The cursor would be pointing to neither. Since it is past-the-end, there is nothing defined there.

2. (2,5)

3. yes






# **Question 121**: I am failing 2 of my public test cases for list.hpp by an off-by-one error. I am not sure why because I am passing my test cases, and the failing has to do with where I increment the element size. When I change the placement of where I increment the element size, it affects if I pass my own test cases or the public test cases. Please help my latest submission is on the autograder.  

**Answer**: resolved in OH
For others running into an issue with the public tests, make sure your end iterator function properly returns an iterator pointing "past-the-end" (not to last)


# **Question 122**: Hi! I was just wondering how I can go about trying to code the compute_column() function without using any of the other functions we made and not using the "row" and "column" variables. Thank you!

**Answer**: How do you know when a new row starts? Is there a character you can look for that indicates the beginning of a new row? 

With that in mind, think about how you can use a loop to "count" the number of columns until hitting the start of the current row/end of the previous row.


# **Question 123**: I'm not sure why it won't let me do the self-assignment to check for list bug #2, this is the error that comes up on my terminal. Could anyone help me with this?

**Answer**: The compiler will not let you use self assignment directly. But you can "trick" the compiler into doing self assignment by doing the self assignment indirectly.
You might use a pointer, reference, etc to accomplish this.


# **Question 124**: Hello! Currently, I'm passing all the public test cases for TextBuffer, but failing both of the line tests. I was wondering how to approach debugging, would it be similar to debugging a normal test case? I'm just confused because it's interactive. Thank you!   

**Answer**: really late, but you can use "make test" to output it into the two files:

line_test1.out and line_test2.out

compare those files with the line_test1.out.correct and line_test2.out.correct on https://www.diffchecker.com/text-compare/ 

you can see pretty well the line where the you had any errors. good luck!


# **Question 125**: The following image is the terminal output after I run the leaks program on Tests_lines.exe. I'm having trouble identifying where the memory is leaking in my implementation or tests. My implementation for push_back is also attached. Any help/recommendations for identifying the problem would be appreciated. Thanks.

**Answer**: Didn't quiet get a solution, but I no longer have any leaks in memory after removing two insert tests which contained the following code:

List<int>::Iterator it = list.begin();
 ++it; 





# **Question 126**: Why am I getting compilation errors when I try to make after implementing bst.h? The errors seem to come from the map compile tests and map tests yet I haven't even touched map. The errors also mention a pair yet I haven't used a pair. Is this because I haven't implemented the map files yet?  My uniqname is tweinsto. I just submitted to the AG. 

**Answer**: simply typing “make” will run all public tests in the starter files. you ran map compile check, which won’t compile until after you implement map.hpp


# **Question 127**: to get full lab credit we only need to attend 9 correct?

**Answer**: yes


# **Question 128**: will the final exam review lecture slides from today be posted? 

**Answer**: Sorry for the delay in response and posting the lecture slides. The pdf is posted now.


# **Question 129**: I'm getting a segmentation fault when I try to run my public tests for the BST.hpp. I tried debugging it using the debugger, but I'm really not understanding what the debugger is trying to say. I am attaching the screenshot of the message I'm getting from my debugger. My latest submission is on the autograder. Please help!    

**Answer 0**: The issue is probably because you are trying to compare the datums with ==, <, > instead of the provided comparator, less. You can't compare the datums with ==, <, >, etc because you have no way of knowing if these operators are defined for the specific data type (since the tree is templated)
**Answer 1**: Thank You! I figured it out. The problem was with my check_sorting_invariant function. I was de-referencing the left and right nodes without checking if they are null pointers if anyone runs into the same issue.


# **Question 130**: the spec contains the following code describing how to find and print elements of a map:  auto found_it = words.find("pi"); if (found_it != words.end()) {   const auto &word = (*found_it).first; //key   auto number = (*found_it).second; //value   cout << "found " << word << " " << number << endl; }  on lines 3 and 4, would "found_it->first" and "found_it->second" work identically to "(*found_it).first" and "(*found_it).second"? thanks!

**Answer**: yes


# **Question 131**: the starter files contain the following code for the interface of insert:  Iterator insert(const T &item) {     assert(find(item) == end());     root = insert_impl(root, item, less);     return find(item); }  as root is set to the new element, in testing functions like max it seems impossible to find the max of the entire tree as root is set to point to a subtree, making the greater tree inaccessible. using to_string after inserts will show a tree which is empty except for the inserted element. how can i get around this? i figure i'm probably misunderstanding something so any explanation is appreciated. thanks!

**Answer**: never mind, you return the original node if the tree wasn't empty lol.


# **Question 132**: What does 1-5 matches mean?  

**Answer 0**: I think it's talking about how long a test suit should take to run in seconds.
**Answer 1**: I believe it's configured that way because you can technically have more test files (other classes like 370 do this), but we only use one file for the autograder. Just submit one BinarySearchTree_tests.cpp file.




# **Question 133**: When using the --debug flag, the values printed must be in alphabetical order. What is the best alphabetize the values? Is there a built-in/provided function I'm not thinking of?

**Answer**: I would suggest looking up how the elements are ordered when using iterators to iterate through std::map and std::set.


# **Question 134**: I'm confused as to why line 6 is the problem. Could someone please walk me through the logic?

**Answer**: 

Note that the only thing that is changed in the push function is lines 11-15, which is the else block (inserting in the middle of the list). We can assume that both push_front and push_back will work as intended. This means that inserting 1 and 9 into the list will be dynamically allocated with no issue. Once we push 5 into the list, it is added in between 1 and 9, but it is not dynamically allocated. 

Since the change in the else block does not use dynamic memory, the node created in the else block self-destructs once the code leaves the block, leaving us with a dangling pointer in the middle of the list.

However, undefined behavior first occurs when you use the undefined memory, which is at line 6.




# **Question 135**: have the exam room post yet?

**Answer**: #193 they have not been released yet


# **Question 136**: Hi, I was wondering if there is a rubric like there was on Gradescope for the midterm that we can use to grade our practice exams. It says how many points there are for each problem in the packet, but not the rubric item for the free response questions. Thank You!

**Answer**: we don't have the specific rubrics up, but if you wanted we might be able to tell you what a potential rubric would be for the problem if you come to office hours!




# **Question 137**: Where can we see final exam room locations?

**Answer**: I dont believe they have been released, but will update this post when they are.


# **Question 138**: Someone else asked as a reply to the Final Exam Review post, but I am not sure if their question was seen there.

**Answer**: it hasn't happened yet :) It's tonight 9-11pm. Will be posted afterwards.


# **Question 139**: I was wondering why 2e would have a memory leak.  

**Answer**: Lets say that you do the following:

DataManager d(5);
d.setData(6);

In order to not have any leaked memory, you need to make sure you have as many deletes as news. Calling the DataManager ctor uses new once, causing data_ptr to point to 5 on the heap. Then, calling setData uses another new . At this point in the program, the data_ptr of d is pointing to 6, not 5, but both are dynamically allocated. We have leaked memory in this case because there is no way to recover the memory used on the heap from the 5 without terminating the entire program.


# **Question 140**: Hi y'all! For question 1c of the Winter 2023 Final exam, the answer key lists that none of the options should have been selected, but I don't see what is wrong with answer C.

**Answer**: C should be the correct answer. It's just missing in the solutions packet


# **Question 141**: Hi,  I'm looking over the exam right now, and I noticed I was marked down on question 2b for these three rubric items: (1) Checks to see if the team exists in team_map, (2) If team exists, checks that its size < 6, and (3) If team does not exist, throw InvalidTeam().   However, in my implementation, I used the TeamRoster::get_team() function, which, according to the RME on the sixth page of the questions packet, "Returns a vector of players in the team, or throws an 'InvalidTeam' exception if no such team exists." By calling this function, I assumed that these three rubric items would be fulfilled because the RME says it will throw an exception of the same name as the exception in add_player() if the team does not exist.   Am I incorrect in my thinking? 

**Answer 0**: if you believe the grading is incorrect, I would recommend submitting a regrade request when those are available, stating your reasoning as above here. 
**Answer 1**: We did find a systemic issue with the grading where we missed granting points for the exception that would be thrown from get_team() used as a helper. I believe all of those have been fixed as of this morning, but please check and submit a regrade request if you haven't already and if the grading still doesn't look right to you.


# **Question 142**: Now that the course is complete and the final exam has been graded, when will we be able to see our overall grades for the semester? Will it be released on Canvas before it gets added to our transcript?  

**Answer**: We don't upload final letter grades to Canvas (I'm not sure if there's a feature for this or not, actually). However, you can compute your final letter grade using the grade calculator at eecs280.org/calculator.html. We're planning to upload final letter grades via Wolverine Access soon and then it should appear on your transcript.


# **Question 143**: Hi,  This is Rashne Hassan, UMID 54291515.  I just got my final grade for eecs280 which is a B+. I was confused about my grade so I looked on canvas and I saw that one of my labs was not counted. I attended and submitted all labs except for 4,6, and 10, which is reflected on gradescope. On canvas it says I got a 0 for lab 9, but I definitely attended which my team must remember because we all said goodbye as it was their last lab of the semester and it says 10/10 on gradescope.  Including this lab, my average for the class goes from an 89.6 to a 90.17.  Could this please be looked into?  Thanks,  Rashne

**Answer**: Please go ahead and follow up via email with us at eecs280admin@umich.edu so one of our staff can double check this.


# **Question 144**: Hi, If I had a grade change for an assignment on canvas yesterday, how long would that take to reflect on my transcript if there was a letter change? Thanks, Rashne

**Answer**: We've just finished processing regrade requests and I submitted a grade change request for you this morning. It looks like it was automatically approved and posted, so you should be able to see the change reflected.




